# Exercise 1 : Meet Poky 

## Learning Outcome 

- Meet poky
-  Learn commands to build an image.
-  Run an image.
## Meet Poky

- [Poky](https://docs.yoctoproject.org/overview-manual/yp-intro.html#reference-distribution-poky) is the **reference distribution** of the Yocto Project which uses OpenEmbedded build system Technology.
- It is a **toolset for building** embedded linux systems.
  Its made up of
        1.  **Collection of tools**
        2.  **Configuration files**
        3.  **Recipe** Data a.k.a metadata

 **Key features** include
	    1. flexible configuration,
	    2. support for cross compilation using bitbake-tool.
	    3. ability to generate minimal and optimized system images.
### Where to find it?

- In this Virtual Machine(VM), Poky is available at `~/work/poky/poky`.
- Start by `cd ~/work/poky/poky`.
  
## Part 1 : Initial Exploration.

1. Find the script `oe-init-build-env`, can you identify what type of license it has and how it is called?
   <details>
   <summary>hint</summary>
    Just try to read the first few lines of this script. It's a complex script, don't let it bother you. 
</details>
   <details>
   <summary>Answer</summary>
   This script is to be called `./oe-init-build-env builddir` and the license is `GPL-2.0`
   </details>

2. What happens when you source this file? 
   <details>
   <summary>hint</summary>
    What does the name indicate? 
</details>
   <details>
   <summary>Answer</summary>
   The sourcing creates the build environment, the configuration files and switches us to the build directory.
   </details>

   3. Can you Note down the names of the images that start with `core-image` on a piece of paper. We will use this later.
   <details>
   <summary>hint</summary>
     pay special attention to the names  core-image-* 
</details>
   <details>
   <summary>Answer</summary>
 - we  see the images : `core-image-minimal`, `core-image-full-cmdline`, `core-image-weston` and so on when we source the script.
   </details>

3. We are now inside the build directory, apart from creating the build directory, several configuration files (confs) have been created. Can you find the conf file with the largest code length?
   <details>
   <summary>hint</summary>
    - You can use `find . -name "*.conf"` to find all the conf files inside a specific directory
    - Use `wc` to find word count for the files
    - **Pro tip**: use `xargs` if possible to combine find and wc.
</details>
   <details>
   <summary>Answer</summary>
    `local.conf` is the file
   </details>
## Part 2: Exploration Continues

 Choose the one with the largest lines and try to read through the comments. The file is very often used and is very well documented, don't let it overwhelm you.

4. Can you identify what Distribution `DISTRO`  it is using? 
5. and what is the architecture of  the `MACHINE`  that is being built?
   <details>
   <summary>hint</summary>
    - Check the DISTRO Variable and see what it is set for distribution
    - Look at the `MACHINE` variable maybe there is a clue to what architecture we are building.
</details>
   <details>
   <summary>Answer</summary>
    - Distribution can be found from the `DISTRO` variable which is set to "poky"
    - The architecture being built can be found from the `MACHINE` variable which is set to `qemux86-64`
   </details>

6. Can you see if we have supported debugging tools like gdb  in this build?
   <details>
   <summary>hint</summary>
    - Reading the comments above EXTRA_IMAGE_FEATURES could give you an idea.
</details>
   <details>
   <summary>Answer</summary>
  - Debugging tools are not enabled. `tools-debug` add support for gdb and other debugging tools.
   </details>

## Part 3: Build an image 
 
 Bitbake our build system is part of the yocto project and is used to build images. We can now start building a simple image and see what happens.

7. Can you try to build the `core-image-minimal` image?
   <details>
   <summary>hint</summary>
    -**Bitbake** our build system, can build an image just like this `bitbake  Image_name`. 
   </details>
   <details>
   <summary>Answer</summary>
  - `bitbake core-image-minimal`
   </details>
   
8. Now lets try to build another image 
`bitbake core-image-full-cmdline`

- Do you see a lot of things going on? Does it make your head spin? Don't  worry we will cover all this later in this course? Does it go faster or slower?

9. For now, try to find these images, they have a format `.ext4` and they are somewhere inside the build directory.
   <details>
    <summary>hint</summary>
    You can use `find . -name "core-image*.ext4"` to find the file, from which you can infer the directory.
    </details>
   <details>
   <summary>Answer</summary>
  - You can find the output images here `/home/yocto/work/poky/poky/build/tmp/deploy/images/qemux86-64`
   </details>
   
## Part 4: Running an Image

Now that you have built the images, its time to see what they look like.

 Open `terminal`, you can find it in the VM, and try to split the terminal window to left and right 
10. On the left window, try to run the `core-image-minimal` and on the right window run `core-image-full-cmdline`. Maybe we can use QEMU somehow..
   
what command can we use?
   <details>
    <summary>hint</summary>
 At its simplest form you can use qemu by `runqemu image_name`
    </details>
   <details>
   <summary>Answer</summary>
  -  Use `runqemu core-image-minimal`  on the left
  -  Use `runqemu core-image-full-cmdline` on the right
   </details>

### login

* Use root as password for login.

## Part 5 : Comparison, the thief of joy

**Congratulations**, now you have both the images running. Now its time to see what's the difference between them.
11. Can you check what applications are installed inside both the instances?
   <details>
    <summary>hint</summary>
    You can check the installed applications under `bin` directory
    </details>
   <details>
   <summary>Answer</summary>
  - `ls /usr/bin`
   </details>
   
 Can you find any common programs in both?
## Part 6 : Exploring the QEMU hardware 
  
12. You have now successfully booted into the prebuilt image, can you find out how much memory and processor cores are present in the image?
    <details>
    <summary>hint</summary>
    - Use the command `free` to find the memory
    - Use the command `nproc` to find the processors
    </details>
## Part 7 Exiting the QEMU

13. use `CTRL + A+ X` to exit qemu*