# Exercise: Devtool, Create a patch

## Learning outcome

* Learn how to use Devtool 
* Explore more of the extended SDK.

`Devtool`  is part of the extended SDK. 

Extended SDK makes it relatively easier to work with patches and other stuff.

## Part 0 - Getting started (OPTIONAL)

1. What devtool command can you use to extract a recipe?

   <details>
   <summary>hint</summary>
   Read the devtool help text
</details>
  <details>
	   <summary>Answer</summary>
	`devtool modify` is used to extract a recipe 
   </details>


2. Once extracted, where can you find the source code of the recipe?
  <details>
   <summary>Answer</summary>
	 `/home/yocto/work/poky/poky/build/workspace/sources/`
   </details>

3. Which variables in recipe metadata should we modify to add a patch to a recipe?
  <details>
	   <summary>Answer</summary>
		- `SRC_URI` should be updated with the patch details to include it in our recipe.
   </details>

## Part 1 - Extracting the kernel with Devtool

4. Extract the linux kernel using devtool, the recipe is named `linux-yocto`
  <details>
	   <summary>Answer</summary>
	- `devtool modify linux-yocto`
</details>

*  The command will extract the recipe to `/home/yocto/work/poky/poky/build/workspace/sources/`

5. Open vscode by running this in the terminal
` code /home/yocto/work/poky/poky/build/workspace/sources/`
6. Do a quick exploration of this folder (1min)

## Part 2 - Making changes

6. Add comments in the files specified below (minimum), more files can be modified if desired.

	1. `Makefile`
	2. `driver/amba/bus.c `
	3. `drivers/fpga/altera-cvp.c`
	   
7. Check the `git status` to observe the modification.

## Part 3 Building with Devtool

* Use `devtool` to build the recipe.
 
 The command used to do this  is `devtool build recipe-name`

8. Build the changes with devtool for `linux-yocto` recipe

  <details>
	   <summary>Answer</summary>
	- `devtool build linux-yocto`
</details>
   

## Part 4 Creating a patch
Patching can be done after a successful build.

9.  Use `git add .` to add your change to version control.
10. Commit your change using `git commit -m "Message"`
11. Generate the patch using `devtool update-recipe linux-yocto`

This would create a patch and update the recipe.

## Part 5 Observing the Patch
 
 Note the name of the recipe file that was modified.

10. Go to `/home/yocto/work/poky/poky/meta/recipes-kernel/linux`  and find the recipe that you noted before. If stuck in this step, reach out to me.

11. Confirm that the patch is included in the SRC_URI

* Devtool create a patch and automatically update it in our recipe.


## Part 6 - Additional Uses of Devtool (Optional)

### Find a recipe

* `devtool find-recipe recipename ` will find a recipe.

12. Identify the location of these recipes (Optional Task)
-  `inventory` 
-  `bbexample`

### Rename a recipe
 
13. Rename the recipe `bbexmple`  to `newexample` using devtool!
  <details>
	   <summary>Answer</summary>
	- `devtool rename recipe`
</details>


# Reference
- [Devtool reference manual](https://docs.yoctoproject.org/ref-manual/devtool-reference.html)





