# Exercise: best practices #minoreview 


## Learning Outcomes #refined #minoreview 
* Build a tailored Yocto image following the best practices such as 
	* Creating a custom Distro
	* Enabling build-info
	* Using Extended SDK
	* Reducing the number of layers.

# Prework
### mistakes 
* Some bad licensing files
* Make some configuration changes in local.conf. 
* This would require [[13.BestPractices#Part 2 - Fixing the changes from local.conf]]
* Miss the software bill of material.

##  Part 1 - Identifying the mistakes
1. Run QEMU and explore a given image.
2. Ask them to inspect the local.conf
3. Ask them to inspect the distro layers and see if it is good to use Poky?
4. Ask them to create a patch which would fix a inconsistency? #what 
5.  Create lots of layers and ask them to reduce the layers to manageable chunks.
6.  Something about a wrong license? Make the license open.



# Part 2 - Fixing the changes from local.conf
- [ ] Make a file that would have IMAGE_FSTYPE and MACHINE Set in local.conf #todo 
- [ ]  Maybe some more setting that needs to be changed
-  Change the parameters.

# Part 3 - Enabling Build-info #minoreview 
* `inherit image-buildinfo` to recipe 
# Part 4 - Using Devtool to patch a recipe 
* [ ] Create the recipe #todo 
	* [ ] Add a file python file #todo 
*  The objective is to add a function to this python file which will do an action #todo 
* Use devtool to create a a patch
	## Steps
	1. `devtool modify recipe`
	2. Find the source
	3. Make the changes
	4. Do a git commit
	5. git format~patch
	6. devtool update recipe 
	
# Part 5 - Enabling a Software Bill of Material

```
INHERIT += "create-spdx"
```

# Part 6 - Building a Custom Distro #unclear

*  **Note :** Just create the distro layers and files. Don't update the local.conf
* This will be used here.


* 