# Exercise: Explore Metadata and Recipes #Notdone 

  - [x] Needs a review with the files created in Vscode

## Objective

- Explore metadata and intro to recipes
- Understand what components make up a recipe.

## Introduction

- A key element of the Yocto Project is the meta-data which is used to construct a Linux distribution, contained in the files that the build system parses when building an image. 

- In general, Metadata includes **recipes, configuration files and other information** referring to the build instructions themselves, as well as the data used to control what things get built and to affect how they are built. 
- The meta-data **also includes commands and data** used to indicate what versions of software are used, and where they are obtained from, as well as changes or additions to the software itself (patches or auxiliary files) which are used to fix bugs or customize the software for use in a particular situation. 
- OpenEmbedded Core is an important set of validated metadata.
  
  
## Types of Metadata
1. Recipes `.bb` and extensions `.bbappend`
2. Classes `.bbclass`
3. Include Files `.inc`
4. Configuration files `.conf`



### Recipes
- Files that have the `.bb` suffix are “recipes” files.
- In general, a recipe contains information about a single piece of software.
- This information includes the location from which to download the unaltered source, any source patches to be applied to that source (if needed), which special configuration options to apply, how to compile the source files, and how to package the compiled output.

1. Identify the recipe in the bunch of these file. Can you guess the tasks that this recipe will do?


   <details>
   <summary>hint</summary>
   - What extension does the recipe have?
   - Tasks look like functions what reminds you of a function?
</details>

   <details>
   <summary>Answer</summary>
     The recipe is `xyz.bb` and the functions are `cast_configuration_spell(), brew_potion, apply_protective_charm, display_wizard_title, banish_unwanted` and theres one more!

   </details>






1. This recipe performs certain tasks, can you find the task which uses a bitbake log called bbfatal?


   <details>
   <summary>Answer</summary>
   The task is `do_banish_unwanted`
   </details>






1. Can you identify the common variables in the recipes, maybe there is a comment somewhere. #minoreview 

   <details>
   <summary>hint</summary>
   Pay Close attention 
</details>

   <details>
   <summary>Answer</summary>
   The `SRC_URI`, 'S', 'BUILD_DIR', 'D', 'WORKDIR', 'DEPLOY_DIR_IMAGE'
   </details>







### Classes
Class files (`.bbclass`) contain information that is useful to share between recipes files. Similar to OOPs concepts, you can inherit a class between multiple recipes.

1. Which command is used to read from a class?


   <details>
   <summary>hint</summary>
   Look at the recipe.
</details>

   <details>
   <summary>Answer</summary>
    inherit
   </details>






1.  What happens when you include this class in your recipe?

   <details>
   <summary>hint</summary>
   how does inheritance work in C++?
</details>

   <details>
   <summary>Answer</summary>
   recipe gets a new function and some more metadata.
   </details>





### include
* also a way to share info between recipe but different than class.

1. How is it different than a class?


   <details>
   <summary>hint</summary>
   look at the way its used in the recipe and also on the composition of the include file.
</details>

   <details>
   <summary>Answer</summary>
   'include' is used to include the file and it cannot have 'functions'
   </details>




### Appends

* Appends can be identified by the `.bbappend` extension.
* Appends are used to extend a recipe. I.e add more info to an existing recipe.

1. Why do we need an append? Why don't we modify the `.bb` file instead?



   <details>
   <summary>hint</summary>
   Do we always have access to a recipe? 
</details>

   <details>
   <summary>Answer</summary>
   When we don't have access to a recipe's source code, we need to append a recipe and add our  configurations to it!
   </details>



2. There are two append files here, Maybe there is a recipe somewhere, can you guess what its name might be?



   <details>
   <summary>hint</summary>
   What does the name of the file indicate?
</details>

   <details>
   <summary>Answer</summary>
   Spell is the new recipe.
   </details>


3. What does the bbappend for the initial recipe that we worked with earlier do?
  
   <details>
   <summary>Answer</summary>
   it tries to create change the variable PR and sets it to "r2"
</details>




### Conf 

Conf files are used to set some configurations. Now we will look at a special conf called layer.conf about which we will learn later.

1. go to ~/work/poky/poky/meta-poky and try to find this file!
2. Can you see that we assign some bitbake specific meta data? can you find them? Are the easy to understand?

  





  
  
  

