# Exercise: Create a recipe
## Learning Outcome

* Learn different ways of creating a recipe.
* Learn how to add a task to a recipe that performs a certain action
* Learn how to create a bitbake class
* Learn the difference between an `inc` and `bbclass`


**NOTE : Refer to slides for more instruction on how to create a recipe, this exercise will have limited hints/answer"

## Part 1 : Creating a recipe
### Create a recipe `manually` 

1. Go to the folder `meta-exercises`.
2. Create a folder called`recipes-createrecipes`, ignore the pun.
3. Find a recipe for reference or refer the slides to see what are the basic components of a recipe!
   

  Irrespective of their size, the core elements you need in a recipe is 
`SUMMARY`, `DESCRIPTION` and `LICENSE`. 

5. Create your own recipe file and name this file as `manualrecipe.bb`. Remember the recipe should have its own folder, so it should be `/recipes-createrecipes/manualrecipe/manualrecipe.bb`.
6. Try to run this new recipe using the command `bitbake manualrecipe`, your simple recipe is now ready!!

### Creating a recipe using `recipestools`

7. Now lets shift gears and try to make a recipe using recipestools.
   
   We can create a new recipe with recipestool by using the syntax below.
   
Syntax : `recipetool create -o OUTFILE source`
 
 Create a new folder called `inventory`

* go to the inventory folder.

* In the syntax above replace OUTFILE with `inventory.bb` and add the source as `https://github.com/sridharsabarish/easyInventory.git`.
  
 This would create a simple recipe, with information of the source populated.

   <details>
   <summary>Solution</summary>
   - `recipetool create -o inventory.bb https://github.com/sridharsabarish/easyInventory.git`
   </details>

### Create a recipe using `devtool`
  
   Okay, that was easy, how about using the yocto's devtool? 
   
   8. Create a recipe using devtool using the steps below

* Create a directory called devtoolrecipe
* Run the following command 
* `devtool add <Recipename> .`
* This would create a recipe that can be found in the `home/yocto/work/poky/poky/build/workspace/recipes/` directory, move this recipe to the folder created earlier.

   <details>
   <summary>Solution</summary>
   - `devtool add devtoolrecipe .`
   </details>

## Enriching the recipe

9. Add some metadata to the recipe `manualrecipe.bb`,  You can use your own data or you can add the following.
   
   Remember you can do whatever you want, its your recipe!! 

```shell
PV = "1.0+git${SRCPV}"
PR = "r1"

# Custom metadata
RING_INSCRIPTION = "One ring to rule them all, one ring to find them, one ring to bring them all, and in the darkness bind them"
MIDDLE_EARTH_REGION = "The Shire"
ENEMY_NAME = "Sauron"
ENEMY_DOMAIN = "Mordor"


```

###  Adding Task to your recipe


Now, we will add some tasks to our recipe. The tasks structure is provided for you, can you add them to your recipe. 

**Remember you need to explicitly add your task!**


#### Some syntax to help you

```python
do_nameoftask( ){

--- some content----
}

addtask nameoftask after <someothertask>  
// You could replace <somothertask> with install, compile, build etc.
```

10. Go to the `manualrecipe.bb` and add two tasks `do_display_banner()` and `do_print_message()`

Note, the info below is just an example, you can and you should try to vary this example and have your own metadata instead!
#### Task 1

```

do_display_banner() {
    bbplain "*********************************************************************************************"
    bbplain "*                                                                                           *"
    bbplain "*  Example recipe created by Golem                                                *"
    bbplain "*                                                                                           *"
    bbplain "*  Version: ${PV}                                                                           *"
    bbplain "*  Revision: ${PR}                                                                          *"
    bbplain "*  License: ${LICENSE}                                                                      *"
    bbplain "*  ${RING_INSCRIPTION}                                                                      *"
    bbplain "*  ${MIDDLE_EARTH_REGION}                                                                   *"
    bbplain "*  Enemy: ${ENEMY_NAME} of ${ENEMY_DOMAIN}                                                  *"
    bbplain "*                                                                                           *"
    bbplain "*********************************************************************************************"
}

```


#### Task2 

```

do_print_message() {
    bbplain "This is a message from do_print_message()"
    bbplain "${RING_INSCRIPTION}"
    bbplain "${MIDDLE_EARTH_REGION}"
    bbplain "Beware of ${ENEMY_NAME} from ${ENEMY_DOMAIN}"
}


```


* Add the print statements inside them both you can use `bbwarn`, `bberror` to give the statements too.
  
* The syntax is usually `bbtype "message"`, where bbtype is `bbwarn`, `bberror`, `bbnote`, `bbfatal` and so on.
  
* **Note:** Remember you need to **explicitly add the tasks** using addtask command, so add the two tasks before build.

## Part 3: Create a class

11. Create a new file called `lor.bbclass` and put it under the classes directory
12. Move the two tasks created to this file including the statements used to addthetask


## Part 3: Inherit this class in the created recipe 
13. Inherit the class in our `manualrecipe.bb` this should bring the functions back to the class and try to print them.

   <details>
   <summary>Answer</summary>
   - add `inherit lor` to you manualrecipe.bb file
   </details>

13. Optional : Also you could inherit this class to the other recipes created too. (optionally)


## Part 5: Create incl files 

 15.  Create a folder called `include` under the layer's conf directory
 16. Now create a file called `lor.inc`
 - Now try include the content of the metadata using the `include` directive in the recipe.
   <details>
   <summary>Answer</summary>
   - add `require conf/include/lor.inc` to you manualrecipe.bb file
   </details>

This way by using includes and classes, we can organize our codes and improve readability  and reusability.




