# Exercise :  Package Management, Feeds and so on 

## Learning Objective 

*  Understand how to set package-versioning, revision and epoch and when it is appropriate to do so.
* Learn how to deal with package dependencies.
* Understand the different package formats supports in Yocto.
* Learn how to create package groups
* Learn how to setup a package feed
## Part 1: Setting the ground 

1. Go to a `meta-exercises/recipes-packaging` and look at the `exercise1`.
	1. What is the Package Name `$PN` ?
	2. What is the Package Version `$PV`?
	3. What is the Package Revision `$PR` that is used in this Recipe?
	4. What is the Package Epoch `$PE` of this recipe and can it be a floating point?
   <details>
   <summary>hint</summary>
   How is a recipe defined?
</details>

   <details>
   <summary>Answer</summary>
   - A recipe typically follows this pattern {PN}-{PV}
   - The PE And PR values are defined inside the `.bb` file.
   - `PN` is `exercise1`
   - `PV` is `1.1`
   - `PR` is `r11`
   - `PE` is 2, not it cannot be a floating point. It has to be a decimal.
   </details>
## Part 2: Change the packaging 

2. When you build this recipe using `bitbake packages1` which one do you think gets executed?

   <details>
   <summary>hint</summary>
   What is the order of precedence base on the values of PE , PR , PV?
</details>
   <details>
   <summary>Answer</summary>
   PE has the highest priority, so the recipe with PE 2 which is packages1_1.20.bb would get executed.
   </details>

3.  Now, take the `packages1_1.10` and change the `PR="2.0"` and try to build now. Do you think this will get built now?

   <details>
   <summary>hint</summary>
   Is it higher prio than E?
</details>
   <details>
   <summary>Answer</summary>
   No it wont' get executed.
   </details>

4. What happens when you set "PE" to 3 in `packages1_1.10`?
   <details>
   <summary>Answer</summary>
   Now since the PE is higher than the one for packages1_1.20 it will get executed.
   </details>

5. Create a bbappend file called `packages1.bbappend` that would set the `PE="4"` Do you think this would have an impact on the other packages we have?
   
   <details>
   <summary>hint</summary>
   Appends also can be version controlled!
</details>
   <details>
   <summary>Answer</summary>
   It would impact the packages1.bb only, since the append is made for that. so now Packages1.bb's function would run!
   </details>

6. What would happen if you change the bbappend to `packages1%.bbappend`?

7.  Make the package automatically update its version [[packages#Updating Package Version]]

## Part 3: Handling Dependencies
###  Creating a dependency

8. Go to the `packages2` folder and try to add a dependency to a recipe called `magic`  and try to build this recipe. Do you see something strange?

   <details>
   <summary>hint</summary>
   how is a dependency added
</details>
   <details>
   <summary>Answer</summary>
   `DEPENDS += "magic"`
</details>
### Solving Dependency.
9. In `packages3` folder there is a recipe called packages3.bb, try to rename it to `magic.bb` and try to run `bitbake packages2`, what do you see now? 
10. Now rename the file `magic.bb` back to `packages3.bb`. A recipe can solve another recipe's dependency, maybe there is something hidden in the comments that would solve this issue?Once this recipe satisfies that package, the dependency would be solved.

## Part 4 : more packaging.
### Generating packages of different formats

11. Can you enable support for `deb`  

   <details>
   <summary>hint</summary>
   Maybe `local.conf` has some information
</details>
   <details>
   <summary>Answer</summary>
   add this to the recipe
   `PACKAGE_CLASSES:append = “ package_deb”`
</details>

## Part 5: Setting up Package feeds 

* Objective create a local package feed and host it in a python server!
* ### For Package Feed server
- use `bitbake package-index` after building all packages, otherwise package index will not include them
- `cd build /tmp/deploy/rpm`
- `python3 -m http.server 5678`

## Part6 : Explore `oe-pkgdata-util` 
 
12. List all the packages that are available in our build.

   <details>
   <summary>Answer</summary>
  Use the first command from below.
</details>

13. Which of these packages have just one file and have no extra files with them?
	- `Bash`
	- `strace`
	- `time
	- `socat`
	- `iptables`

14. Are they just binaries or do they have other files with them?

   <details>
   <summary>Answer</summary>
   run `oe-pkgdata-utils list-pkg-files` 
   Only `time` and `bash` have just one files.
</details>

15. Which of the above 5 packages have a revision whose first two values are same?
   <details>
   <summary>Answer</summary>
 - use `oe-pkgdata-util package-info`
 - we can see that `iptables` and `socat` share similar version numbers.
</details>


| **Command**                                     | **Description**                                                             | **Example Usage**                                 |
| ----------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------- |
| `oe-pkgdata-util list-pkgs`                     | Lists all packages built in the current Yocto environment                   | `oe-pkgdata-util list-pkgs`                       |
| `oe-pkgdata-util list-pkg-files <package-name>` | Lists all files installed by a specific package                             | `oe-pkgdata-util list-pkg-files bash`             |
| `oe-pkgdata-util package-info`                  | Shows information for a specific package                                    | `oe-pkgdata-util packag-info bash`                |

  