# Exercise 7: Yocto Customizing Recipe 

# Learning outcome 

* Learn how to extend an existing Recipe with a `.bbappend` file
* Learn how to create a patch for your recipe.
* Learn how to add package configuration to your recipes.

## Part 0 : What's been appended?

1. How can you find what recipes have been appended?
 - Run this command `bitbake-layers show-appends`
 - This would show you a list of all the recipes that has been appended!

### Adding license to a recipe
* Go to `recipes-extendrecipe/appendexample`, here there is a recipe which doesn't have a license. There are some instructions available.
  
* Go to `home/yocto/work/poky/poky/meta/files/common-licenses`
* Search for the license type and run `md5sum license` for example `md5sum MIT`

or you can find the license in your layer with COPYING.MIT

A license is needed for a recipe, otherwise QA will throw an error.
We can find most licenses under `work/poky/poky/meta/files/common-licenses` also referred to as `COMMON_LICENSE_DIR`


Here is a simple starter for how to add to your `.bb` file
```
LIC = "MIT"
LIC_FILES_CHKSUM = "file://${COMMON_LICENSE_DIR}/MIT;md5=0835ade698e0bcf8506ecda2f7b4f302"
```

- Based on this can you add the license `GPLv2.0` to it? 
## Part 1 : Extending a recipe

* Go to `/home/yocto/work/poky/poky/meta-exercises/recipes-extendrecipe/firstrec`
2.  Create an append  file for this recipe.  How should it be named?
   <details>
   <summary>Answer</summary>
   `firstrec.bbappend`
</details>
  3. Inside the append file modify the values of the following variables.
* Set `PR `to `r12`
* Set `PE` to `4`
* Update the value for `CAT1`, `CAT2` and `CAT3` to as you feel like.

4. Now try to run `bitbake -e first | grep  "^CAT1"` , similarly for other variables to double check.
   <details>
   <summary>Answer</summary>
  You will now see that the append file overwrote the normal recipe.
</details>

## Part 2: Apply a patch!
* We can modify a recipe's source by making patches. A patch is simply a diff that is made in a file. 
* There is a patch file which is present in the `files` folder.
5.  What does it do?
   <details>
   <summary>Hint</summary>
   How would a git diff looks like?
</details>

   <details>
   <summary>Answer</summary>
   The patch creates a new shell script called `somescript.sh` which runs the commands `ifconfig`, `nproc` and `free`.
</details>

6. Now, lets include it to the recipe. Which variable do we modify?

   <details>
   <summary>Hint</summary>
   'Check the hints on the .bb file'
</details>
   <details>
   <summary>Answer</summary>
   SRC_URI
</details>

## Part 3: Update the existing task  #todo 
* Apart from changing Metadata, a recipe's task can also be extended.
* Usually the trick is to add the :append override to the task and now we can append a task.
7.  In the `.bbappend` file create a new task which is a copy of the task in the `.bb` file and try to change the text to say "Example from BBappend"
8. Now try to build the recipe and see what gets printed.
  
   <details>
   <summary>Answer</summary>
   You will note that first bbfile is run, then the task in the bbappend file is run!!
</details>


9. Now try to create a new task in the `.bbappend` with the `prepend` override, change the texts to example from prepend and run this again!

10. Now try to build it a few more times and you will notice that you don't see any output!
   How can we make a task run explicitly?

   <details>
   <summary>Hint</summary>
   bitbake -C can help us run a task
</details>

   <details>
   <summary>Solution</summary>
`bitbake -C display_banner firstrec`

</details>
   


## Part 4 : Add extra files to existing packages 

11.  Now we will create a `.c` file with the following information
  
```c

#include <stdio.h>
  
int main() {

printf("Hello Yocto!\n");

return 0;

}
```
  
* Save this as `hello.c`


12. Populate our recipe `firstrec.bb`  or `firtrec.bbappend` with two tasks `do_install` and `do_compile` with the following info

```Shell

do_compile() {
    ${CC} ${CFLAGS} ${LDFLAGS} hello.c -o hello
}

do_install() {
    install -d ${D}${base_bindir}
    install -m 0755 ${UNPACKDIR}/hello   ${D}${base_bindir}
 
}


```

`Install -d` creates a new directory and the {base_bindir} corresponds to /bin
`install -m` copies the binary to the `/bin ` to the `/bin` folder 


Ensure we have this also in our recipe in the future, this is relevant for the latest yocto version. I have added it by default.
```
S = "${WORKDIR}/sources"
UNPACKDIR = "${S}"
```


* Usually we need to add one extra variable to make sure that the files are detected in the path. 
  `FILESEXTRAPATHS:prepend := "${THISDIR}/files:"`
  Remember to use this as well in your future recipes!
  
  
 13. Now its time to include this file! Can you add this file also to our recipe?

   <details>
   <summary>Hint</summary>
   - This is similar to adding a patch!
</details>

   <details>
   <summary>Answer</summary>
   `SRC_URI += "file://hello.c"`
</details>

14. Now try to explore the pkg using oe-pkg-data util what do you see?

   <details>
   <summary>Answer</summary>
  You can see the binary `/bin/hello`
</details>

## Part 5: Package Config 

 * Package configs are used to customize a recipe.
	 * Like control some behaviours like run time dependency, build time dependency and so forth.
	 * You can check what it means[ here](https://docs.yoctoproject.org/ref-manual/variables.html#term-PACKAGECONFIG), but don't take too long :P
 * Open `home/yocto/work/poky/poky/meta-exercises/recipes-extendrecipe`
 15. There is a recipe `packageconfigexample.bb` here which is causing some mayhem. Can you try building it?
   
   <details>
   <summary>Hint</summary>
   - What are the six attributes used in a packageconfig definiton?
</details>

   <details>
   <summary>Answers</summary>
   - There is a dependency to magical, which is causing errors!
</details>

16. Now try to commenting line 18 and uncomment line 20, what happens now?


   <details>
   <summary>Answers</summary>
   - There is a new runtime dependency, this doesn't look good.
</details>

   17. Now comment line 20 and uncomment line 19 and see what happens!
 * Try commenting and uncommenting thee "PACKAGECONFIG ??" varaible maybe you will understand what is going on here!

    <details>
   <summary>Answers</summary>
   - The dependencies are now met as there is a troubleshooting.bb file, so the error goes away!
</details>

Note how by just changing the value of the package config variable, we can make the recipe behave differently!