 # Exercise : Create a layer

## Learning Outcomes

* Learn how layers work in Yocto 
* Learn how to create a new layer in Yocto 
* Learn how to include several recipes to this layer
* Learn how the `layer.conf` file works.
### The tool
`bitbake-layers` is a powerful command, it can do almost everything we want with layers.

## Part 1: Identifying Layers

1. Identify the currently configured layers using a command mentioned in the slides.

    <details>
    <summary>hint</summary>
    `Which utility does this?`
    </details>

    <details>
    <summary>Answer</summary>
    - `bitbake-layers show-layers`
    </details>

    
      
2. Idenfify the file which keeps track of layers
    <details>
    <summary>hint</summary>
    `bblayers.conf`
    </details>

3. Identify the command to make new layer from the `bitabake-layers` utility.
<details>
<summary>hint</summary>
The help documentation gives us an hint
</details>

<details>
<summary>answer</summary>
	`bitbake-layers create-layer` is used to create a new layer
</details>


## Part 2 : Create a new layers

4. Start by `cd /home/yocto/work/poky/poky` and create a new layer called `meta-layer1` using the `bitbake-layer create-layer` command.

5. Run `bitbake-layers show-layers` to see the layers available layers. 
    
    What does the output indicate? 
   
   <details>
<summary>answer</summary>
	- The layer has not been added yet! 
</details>

6. Add the layer

<summary>answer</summary>
	`bitbake-layers add-layers meta-layer1`
</details>
    
7. Set layer priority of this layer to a 100.

<details>
<summary>hint</summary>
Check `layer.conf` inside the conf folder
</details>

<details>
<summary>Answer</summary>
- In `layer.conf` make this change `BBFILE_PRIORITY_meta-layer1 = "100"`
</details>

8. Modify the `example.bb` inside this layer. Change the text in the `do_display_banner` as  `Example layer 1 recipe created by bitbake-layers`.

### Adding a new layer

9.  Go back to `cd /home/yocto/work/poky/poky/` and create a new layer called `meta-layer2`.

10. Similar to step 8, modify the `example.bb` found inside this layer. Aim to modify the text inside `do_display_banner` to  `Example layer 2 recipe created by bitbake-layers` 

11. Build the example recipe using `bitbake example` and note the output.


<details>
<summary>hint</summary>
How does priority affect a layer?
</details>

<details>
<summary>Answer</summary>
- The layer with highest prio is executed, so our recipe in layer1 with priority 100 is executed instead of the newly created layer.
</details>


##  Part 3 - Changing the location of recipes.

In this part we will learn how BBPATH affect the location we save our recipe.

12. `cd /home/yocto/work/poky/poky`
13. Create a new layer called `meta-layer3` using `bitbake-layer create-layer meta-layer3`
14. A recipe is created inside example folder in meta-layer3. Move this recipe outside this folder to `/home/yocto/work/poky/poky/meta-layer3/`
15. Rename it as `layer3.bb` using `mv example.bb layer3.bb`.
16. Build the  renamed recipe layer3.bb using `bitbake layer3`. 
17. Is it possible to build this recipe?
<details>
<summary>hint</summary>
Is it in our path?
</details>

<details>
<summary>answer</summary>
	It is not possible to find this recipe as it it outside the file path.
</details>
  
18.  Update a variable in `layer.conf` to enable building this recipe.
<details>
<summary>hint</summary>
BBFILES should be changed
</details>

<details>
<summary>answer</summary>
	 Remove the one extra /* in the `BBFILES` variable this would make it possible to search the recipe in our folder.
	 
	`BBFILES += "${LAYERDIR}/recipes-*/*.bb \
            ${LAYERDIR}/recipes-*/*.bbappend"`

</details>

## Part 4 - Removing a layer
19. Explore `bitbake-layers -h` to find the command that removes a layer.

20.  Remove layer3 and layer 1. 
<details>
<summary>hint</summary>
its also a bitbake-layers command
</details>
   <details>
	<summary>Answer</summary>
	`bitbake-layers remove-layer meta-layer1`
	`bitbake-layers remove-layer meta-layer3`
</details>

21. Build example using `bitbake example` and note the output
<details>
<summary>hint</summary>
Where can i find example.bb?
</details>
   <details>
	<summary>Answer</summary>
	Example.bb is only found in layer2 so it is executed!
</details>

## Optional Exercises


22. Which of the following is true?
    1. If there is just one recipe, but it is in a layer with low priority it is not executed?
    2. If there are multiple recipes, then the recipe from the highest priority layer is executed?
    3. If there are multiple recipes, then the recipe with the highest epoch/version is executed irrespective of layer priority?
    4. If a layer has lower priority, even the recipes which are not found in other layers are also not executed.
    5. If there is just one recipe in all the layers, then it is executed no matter what!

</details>
   <details>
	<summary>Answer</summary>
	2 and 5
</details>


23. Go to `https://layers.openembedded.org/`, find a layer and clone it to your VM.
Explore the structure of the cloned layer (2-3mins)

