# Exercise : Images

## Learning Outcome

* Learn how to build an image with specific constraints
	* Choose the Image Filesystem
	* Choose the rootfs size
	* Add specific packages and remove some packages from the image.
## What is an image?

* A Yocto image is a **custom Linux system** built for embedded devices, created using the Yocto Project.
* It combines the **Linux kernel, essential software, and settings** into one ready-to-use package.
* You can tailor the image to include only the software and features you need, making it lightweight and efficient for specific hardware.
* The Yocto build system makes it easy to select what goes into the image, ensuring it’s optimized for performance.
* Once built, the image can be installed on devices, offering a stable and flexible solution for embedded projects.

  
## Part 1 :  Exploring an image.

If you recollect, when we worked with `source oe-init-build-env`, the text displayed certain images that we could "bake" which looked like "core-image-*".

1. An image looks like a recip,  Which one of these images do you not see when you source oe-init-build-env?
    1. core-image-weston
    2. core-image-full-cmdline
    3. core-image-x12
    4. core-image-sato
    5. core-image-minimal

   <details>
   <summary>Answer</summary>
   core-image-x12 doesn't exists
   </details>
2. We can take an existing image recipe for inspirtation. Can you find out where we can find the source for `core-image-minimal.bb`?
   <details>
   <summary>hint</summary>
   -    What linux command is useful for recursively finding a file? Maybe we can try this on the poky directory ~/work/poky/poky
</details>
   <details>
   <summary>Answer</summary>
     Try `find . -name "core-image-minimal*.*"` this would give us ` /meta/recipes-core/images/` as the location.

   </details>


3. In this recipe, can you identify what is the size of the Root File System and if there are any extra space allocated to it?


   <details>
   <summary>hint</summary>
   -  Is there any metadata that looks like it could be for Rootfile System?
</details>

   <details>
   <summary>Answer</summary>
    `IMAGE_ROOTFS_SIZE` and `IMAGE_ROOTFS_EXTRA_SPACE` are used for this. Here the size is 8GB for ROOTFS with 4GB of extra space/

   </details>

4. How are the packages installed in this image?

   <details>
   <summary>hint</summary>
   -  Is there any metadata that could "INSTALL" additional Packages?
</details>

   <details>
   <summary>Answer</summary>
    - IMAGE_INSTALL is used to install packages. In this case we use something called packagegroups!

   </details>

## Part 2 : Creating an Image Recipe


We will now create a custom image, it is always a good practice to create our image from a smaller image such as `core-image-minimal` or `core-image-base`. 


5. Create a folder called `recipes-images` and create a new blank recipe called `myimage.bb`, remember to place the image.bb under `myimage` folder!
6. We can  use the core-image-minimal as base, how can you add it to your recipe?
   
 
   <details>
   <summary>hint</summary>
   You can use `require` directive to accomplish this!
</details>
   <details>
   <summary>Answer</summary>
   Add this line to your recipe `require recipes-core/images/core-image-minimal.bb`
</details>
   
7. Creating our own image recipe allows us to change the Image Filesystem Type? we can try to set our file system to "ext4 ext3", how can we do that?

   <details>
   <summary>hint</summary>
   You can use `IMAGE_FSTYPE` metadata to accomplish this!
</details>
   <details>
   <summary>Answer</summary>
   Set IMAGE_FSTYPE="ext4 ext3"
</details>
  
  
  8. Now add the line that sets the size of root file system to 1gb

 <details>
   <summary>Answer</summary>
   IMAGE_ROOTFS_SIZE = "1024"
</details>

## Part 3  -  Adding packages to the image 


9. Add support for the  `strace` packages to our image and build our image! Might take around 5mins.
 <details>
   <summary>Answer</summary>
  IMAGE_INSTALL += "strace"
</details>

10. Build the image and  Run qemu. Can you use the command `strace` inside the shell?

`runqemu ~/work/poky/poky/build/tmp/deploy/images/qemux86-64/myimage-qemux86-64.rootfs.ext4  nographic`


9. What happens when you type `apt`? can you use it? Add support for `apt` and build again!
 <details>
   <summary>Answer</summary>
  IMAGE_INSTALL += "apt"
</details>


10 . Now Add support for `openssh` 


 <details>
   <summary>Answer</summary>
  IMAGE_INSTALL += "openssh"
</details>



  
## Part 4 : Package Groups

- Package group as the name suggest, help to group packages together so that we can add them easily to our images/recipes as needed.

### Exploring Package Groups
 1.  Go to `/home/yocto/work/poky/poky/meta/recipes-extended/packagegroups`
 2. Explore the packages group used by the `core-image-full-cmdline.bb`
 3. How many types of package group does this recipe use?

 <details>
   <summary>Answer</summary>
 - 7 different types
`packagegroup-core-full-cmdline` 
`packagegroup-core-full-cmdline-utils` 
`packagegroup-core-full-cmdline-extended `
`packagegroup-core-full-cmdline-dev-utils `
`packagegroup-core-full-cmdline-multiuser `
 `packagegroup-core-full-cmdline-initscripts `
  `packagegroup-core-full-cmdline-sys-services `

</details>



 This is a good resource to learn how to add package groups to our recipes! 





