# Exercise: Explore Metadata and Recipes 
## Objective

- Understand the role of different metadata

## Introduction

- A key element of the Yocto Project is the metadata which is used to construct a Linux distribution.
The build system or bitbake parases this information and helps in building an image.

- In general, Metadata includes **recipes, configuration files and other information** referring to the build instructions themselves, as well as the data used to control what things get built and to affect how they are built. 

- The meta-data **also includes commands and data** used to indicate what versions of software are used, and where they are obtained from, as well as changes or additions to the software itself (patches or auxiliary files) which are used to fix bugs or customize the software for use in a particular situation. 

- OpenEmbedded Core is an important set of validated metadata.
  
  
## Types of Metadata

1. Recipes `.bb` and extensions `.bbappend`
2. Classes `.bbclass`
3. Include Files `.inc`
4. Configuration files `.conf`


For this exercise check `~/Desktop/Yocto_Course/Exercise/Exercise 4/Magical` folder.

Also more examples available in `General Resource/Examples`

### Recipes

- Files that have the `.bb` suffix are “recipes” files.
- In general, a recipe contains information about a single piece of software.
- This information includes the location from which to download the unaltered source, any source patches to be applied to that source (if needed), which special configuration options to apply, how to compile the source files, and how to package the compiled output.

1. Identify the recipe in the bunch of these file. 
   Can you identify the tasks are part of this recipe?

   <details>
   <summary>hint</summary>
   - Check files with .bb extension
   - Tasks  are similar to functions, can you find a pattern?
</details>

   <details>
   <summary>Answer</summary>
     The recipe is `xyz.bb`.
     The functions are `cast_configuration_spell(), brew_potion, apply_protective_charm, display_wizard_title, banish_unwanted` and theres one more!

   </details>

2. This recipe performs certain tasks, can you find the task with a trace in the log level `bbfatal`?

   <details>
   <summary>Answer</summary>
   The task is `do_banish_unwanted`
   </details>

3. Can you identify the common variables in the recipes, maybe there is a comment somewhere. 

   <details>
   <summary>hint</summary>
   Pay Close attention 
</details>

   <details>
   <summary>Answer</summary>
   The `SRC_URI`, 'S', 'BUILD_DIR', 'D', 'WORKDIR', 'DEPLOY_DIR_IMAGE'
   </details>


### Classes

Class files (`.bbclass`) contain information that is useful to share between recipes files. 
Similar to OOPs concepts, you can inherit a class between multiple recipes.

4. Which command is used to import metadata from a class?
   <details>
   <summary>hint</summary>
   Look at the recipe.
</details>

   <details>
   <summary>Answer</summary>
    inherit
   </details>

5.  What happens when you include this class in your recipe?

   <details>
   <summary>hint</summary>
   how does inheritance work in object oriented programming?
</details>

   <details>
   <summary>Answer</summary>
   Recipe gets a new function and some more metadata.
   </details>

### Include Files

* Include files offer yet another way of sharing metadata.

6. How is it different than a class?


   <details>
   <summary>hint</summary>
   Look at the way its used in the recipe and also on the composition of the include file.
</details>

   <details>
   <summary>Answer</summary>
   'include' is used to include the file and it cannot have 'functions'
   </details>


### Appends

* Appends can be identified by the `.bbappend` extension.
* Appends are used to extend a recipe. I.e add more info to an existing recipe.

7. Why do we need an append? Why don't we modify the `.bb` file instead?

   <details>
   <summary>hint</summary>
   Do we always have access to a recipe? 
</details>

   <details>
   <summary>Answer</summary>
   When we don't have access to a recipe's source code, we need to append a recipe and add our  configurations to it!
   </details>

8. There are two append files here. These are part of a recipe whose source we don't have direct access yet.
 Can you guess what name  of those recipes?

   <details>
   <summary>hint</summary>
   What does the name of the file indicate?
</details>
   <details>
   <summary>Answer</summary>
   Spell is the new recipe.
   </details>


9. What does the bbappend for the initial recipe that we worked with earlier do?  
   <details>
   <summary>Answer</summary>
   it tries to create change the variable PR and sets it to "r2"
</details>


### Conf 

Conf files are used to set some configurations. Now we will look at a special conf called `layer.conf` about which we will learn later.

10. go to `~/git/poky/meta-poky` and try to read the `layer.conf` file!
11. What are the bitbake specific METADATA here?
   <details>
   <summary>Answer</summary>
   `BBFILE_PRIORITY`, `BBFILE_COLLECTIONS`, `BBPATH`, `BBFILES`, `BBFILE_PATTERN`
</details>




  
  
  # Advanced/Optional

  * Explore the following below :
  
  * https://git.openembedded.org/meta-python2/tree/recipes-devtools/python/python-flask_1.1.1.bb
  * https://git.openembedded.org/openembedded-core/tree/meta/classes-recipe/pypi.bbclass?h=master
  * https://git.openembedded.org/meta-python2/tree/classes/setuptools.bbclass


  * Note: Feel free to explore more recipes or layers as per your interest in layers
  https://layers.openembedded.org/layerindex/branch/master/layers/