# Exercise 10 : Troubleshooting
## Learning Outcomes 

* Learn common troubleshooting strategies
	* Learn when to how to add logging to recipes 
	*  Learn how to debug metadata variables.
	*  Learn how to inspect a package using oe-pkg-data util 
	*  Learn how to generate dependency graphs and view dependency  

## Part 1: Setting the Ground


1. Check the slides and note down different log levels mentioned in that.
   <details>
   <summary>Answer</summary>
    `bberror, bbfatal, bbwarn, bbnote,bbplain, bbdebug`

   </details>

2. What is the difference in logging in python and shell? 
   <details>
   <summary>Hint</summary>
   Check the slides.

   </details>

   <details>
   <summary>Answer</summary>
    Python requires use of . and () compared to the shell syntax.
   </details>



## Part 2 - Troubleshooting!


There are recipes under `meta-exercises/recipes-troubleshooting`, the recipes are named sequentially. The objective  is to build them one by one without any issues.

3. For this exercise, you will need to run `bitbake recipename`, you can find the recipes inside `recipes-troubleshooting` folder.

### Definition of Done
* If you can get a recipe to build successfully without errors, you are done with it and ready to move to the next recipe..


## Part 3 


### Bitbake Environment
4. Identify how the values of `SRC_URI` `IMAGE_INSTALL` `WORKDIR` `DISTRO` by running `bitbake -e` command for `core-image-full-cmdline` image.


Lets say we want to find  all Packages  are used in e` how can we do that by debugging?

   <details>
   <summary>Hint</summary>
    Can we use the bitbake env?

   </details>

   <details>
   <summary>Answer</summary>
    `bitbake -e core-image-full-cmdline | grep "^IMAGE_INSTALL="`
    This would give us the package groups used! Similarly we can find the other Values.

   </details>



### Some more troubleshooting methods.

5. Where can you find the logs?
   <details>
   <summary>Answer</summary>
  - tmp/work directory 
   - An example  `~/git/poky/build/tmp/work/core2-64-poky-linux/firstrec/1.0/temp/log.do_compile.21507`

   </details>



### Dependency graph
6. How can you find dependencies of a recipe? 
   <details>
   <summary>hint</summary>
   Explore the dependency graph!
   `bitbake -g -u taskexp_ncurses recipe_name`
   </details>

7. Can you use this idea to find dependencies for  the recipes `bash` and `strace`

   <details>
   <summary>Answer</summary>
   Explore the dependency graph!
   `bitbake -g -u taskexp_ncurses strace`
   `bitbake -g -u taskexp_ncurses bash`
   </details>



8.  What tool can we use to find all the packages in bitbake?
   <details>
   <summary>Answer</summary>
    `oe-pkg-data-util`

   </details>



## Advanced/Optional

### Devshell

*  Try to open the recipe "gcc" with devshell, the goal is to add a new file to this recipe and try to create a patch!

`bitbake (recipename) -c devshell`

###  Adding Support for GDB 

* Finally, in yocto we can enable support for extra debugging, and one such use case is the GDB.
* Read the  `local.conf` and enable support for GDB.
* Build the `core-image-full-cmdline`, boot the image using `runqemu core-image-full-cmdline nographic` and try to run `gdb` in the shell when it boots in qemu.