# Exercise 1 : Meet Poky 

## Learning Outcome 

-  Meet poky
-  Learn commands to build an image.
-  Learn how to use QEMU (Basics)
-  Identify differences between Images.

## Meet Poky

- [Poky](https://docs.yoctoproject.org/overview-manual/yp-intro.html#reference-distribution-poky) is the **reference distribution** of the Yocto Project which uses OpenEmbedded build system Technology. 

- **Note:** In the Virtual Machine(VM), Poky is available at `~/git/poky`.

  
## Part 1 : Getting Started

### First step
- Go to a terminal and type `cd ~/git/poky` to enter the poky directory.

### oe-init-build-env script
1.  Explore the contents of `oe-init-build-env` using editor of your choice (nano/vi or similar)

- Identify how this script is called.
- What type of license applies to this script?

   <details>
   <summary>hint</summary>
    Just try to read the first few lines of this script. It's a complex script, don't let it bother you. 
</details>

   <details>
   <summary>Answer</summary>
   This script is to be called  `./oe-init-build-env builddir` and the license is `GPL-2.0`
   </details>

2. What happens when you source this file using the command `source oe-init-build-env`? 
   <details>
   <summary>hint</summary>
    What does the name indicate? 
</details>
   <details>
   <summary>Answer</summary>
   The sourcing creates the build environment, the configuration files and switches us to the build directory.
   </details>

   3. After sourcing, you will notice some info is displayed on the screen.
   
   Can you identify the common targets available?

   <details>
   <summary>hint</summary>
     pay special attention to the names  core-image-* 
</details>
   <details>
   <summary>Answer</summary>
 - we  see the images : `core-image-minimal`, `core-image-full-cmdline`, `core-image-weston` and so on.
   </details>

3. The sourcing creates a build directory as well as several configuration files (confs) have been created. 
Can you find the conf file with the largest code length?
   <details>
   
   <summary>hint</summary>
    - You can use `find . -name "*.conf"` to find all the conf files inside a specific directory
    - Use `wc` to find word count for the files
    - **Optional tip**:  it is possible to combine find and wc using xargs command.
      ` find . -name "*.conf" | xargs wc`
   </details>

   <details>
   
   <summary>Answer</summary>
    `local.conf` is the largest conf file.
   </details>

## Part 2: Conf files

 Open this file and try to sift through the comments.
 
 **Note:**  `#` is considered as a comment. Please pay special attention when reading the file.

 This file is meant to be a reference document so you can sift through the comments to get a gist of it without diving deep yet.

4. Can you identify what Distribution `DISTRO`  it is using? 
5. Can you identify if we are currently building for a "real" hardware?  
   
   <details>
   <summary>hint</summary>
    - Check the `DISTRO` Variable and see what it is set for distribution
    - Look at the `MACHINE` variable maybe there is a clue to what machine we are building.
   </details>

   <details>
   <summary>Answer</summary>
    - Distribution can be found from the `DISTRO` variable which is set to "poky"
    - From the `MACHINE` variable we see that is being built for a quick emulator and not a real hardware, this is set to `qemux86-64`
   </details>

6. Identify if  GDB, a debugging tool is supported in this build? (Use the hint)
   <details>
   <summary>hint</summary>
    - Reading the comments  Extra image Configuration defaults could give you an idea.
   </details>

   <details>
   <summary>Answer</summary>
  - Debugging tools are not enabled. `tools-debug` add support for gdb and other debugging tools.
   </details>

## Part 3: Build an image 
 
 Bitbake our build system is part of the yocto project and is used to build images. 
 We can now start building a simple image and see what happens.

7. Build the `core-image-minimal` image using the information obtained earlier.

   <details>
   <summary>hint</summary>
    -**Bitbake** our build system, can build an image just like this `bitbake  Image_name`. 
   </details>
   
   <details>
   <summary>Answer</summary>
  - `bitbake core-image-minimal`
   </details>
   
8. Build another variant of the image, `bitbake core-image-full-cmdline`

- Several build tasks are started by this process.
- Details of which will be covered later in the course.

9. The built root file system has a format `.ext4` and it can be found in the build directory, can you find it? 

  <details>
    <summary>hint</summary>
    You can use `find . -name "core-image*.ext4"` to find the file, from which you can infer the directory.
    </details>
   <details>

  <details>
    <summary>hint2</summary>
    There is an alias which points to this location. 
   
   type yoctoimages
    </details>
   <details>

   <summary>Answer</summary>
  - You can find the output images here `/home/git/poky/build/tmp/deploy/images/qemux86-64`
   </details>
   

## Part 4: Running an Image

- The images have been built, now we can compare both the images.
- In order to compare it is recommended to split the terminal window.
- This can be done by right clicking and splitting the window.
- An image can be run using the runqemu command.

10. On the left window, try to run the `core-image-minimal` and on the right window run `core-image-full-cmdline`.
   
what command can we use?
   <details>
    <summary>hint</summary>
    `runqemu image_name`
    </details>
   <details>ls
   <summary>Answer</summary>
  -  Use `runqemu core-image-minimal nographic`  on the left
  -  Use `runqemu core-image-full-cmdline nographic` on the right
   </details>

 
 **Note:** Use `root` as password for login.

## Part 5 : Compare the Images

**Congratulations**, now you have both the images running. 
Now its time to note the difference between them.

11. Identify how many applications are installed inside the core-image-minimal image?
   <details>
    <summary>hint</summary>
    You can check the installed applications under `bin` directory
    </details>
   <details>
   <summary>Answer</summary>
  - 97 lines
   </details>
   
12. Identify how many applications are installed inside the core-image-full-cmd-line image?
   <details>
    <summary>hint</summary>
    You can check the installed applications under `/usr/bin` directory by combining ls and wc
    </details>
   <details>
   <summary>Answer</summary>
  - 470 lines
   </details>


## Part 6 : QEMU hardware 
  
13. Quick Emulator (QEMU) helps emulate a hardware. Currently the default settings are applied.
    Can you identify 
    - How much free memory is available?
    - How many processor cores are present in the image built?
    
    <details>
    <summary>hint</summary>
    - Use the command `free` to find the memory
    - Use the command `nproc` to find the processors
    </details>

## Part 7 Exiting the QEMU

14. use `CTRL + A+ X` to exit qemu*
